README.md, before:

# wiw-events-shifts-display

Digital signage for displaying events and shifts with data from When I Work or EMS APIs.

This project was developed at the [University of Washington](uw.edu). Users outside of our organization will likely need to go through some significant configuration steps in order to make this code work for them. It's presented here as (hopefully!) a good jumping-off point.

## To Use

To clone and run this repository you'll need [Git](https://git-scm.com) and [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) (which comes with [npm](http://npmjs.com)) installed on your computer. From your command line:

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install
# Run the app
npm start
```

Settings, secrets, etc. will be loaded from local environment variables. See [Configuration](#Configuration) for necessary setup steps for running locally, or what options are available for running in a managed environment.

Note: If you're using Linux Bash for Windows, [see this guide](https://www.howtogeek.com/261575/how-to-run-graphical-linux-desktop-applications-from-windows-10s-bash-shell/) or use `node` from the command prompt.

### Configuration

Sample configuration file provided in `sample.env`

- `WIW_API_TOKEN=when-i-work-login-token`

  Sets the login token for the When I Work API. Necessary to load any data from When I Work.

- `WIW_API_URL=https://api.wheniwork.com/2/`

  Base URL for When I Work's API. Shouldn't change too much.

- `EMS_API_USER=username`

  Username to pass to EMS for accessing the API.

- `EMS_API_PASS=password`

  Password to pass to EMS for accessing the API.

- `EMS_API_URL=https://base.url/EMSAPI/`

  Root URL for the EMSAPI.

- `NOTES_TITLE_SEPARATOR=-`

  Titles for events are in the notes for shifts in When I Work for our particular environment. This is subject to change, and thus the separator can be configured. Works in concert with `SEPARATOR_WHITESPACE`.

- `SEPARATOR_WHITESPACE=true`

  Configures whether or not the separator is surrounded by whitespace or not. In this example the above separator would be a dash surrounded by whitespace.

- `MAX_REFRESH_INTERVAL=300`

  Seconds. Program will refetch data every 30 seconds by default. If any errors occur, including network issues, the refetch rate will slow down by 30 seconds per error until a successful cycle passes, at which point it will return to the default initial refetch rate. The maximum refetch rate puts an upper limit to this rate, so that it will at most wait 5 minutes between attempts.

- `DISPLAY_RENDER_MODE_LEFT=EVENTS`
- `DISPLAY_RENDER_MODE_RIGHT=EVENTS`

  options for DISPLAY_RENDER_MODEs: "LABOR", "EVENTS", or "EMS-EVENTS"

  - LABOR = When I Work Labor (condensed view)
  - EVENTS = When I Work labor events associated with an event
  - EMS-EVENTS = Events scheduled in EMS (regardless of labor assignment)

  When both Left and Right render modes are the same, the screen will render data across both columns (top to bottom, left to right). When the settings are different, each column will render it's data in the set column only (top-to-bottom).

- `DISPLAY_LEFT_COLUMN_TITLE=WIW Events Labor`
- `DISPLAY_RIGHT_COLUMN_TITLE=EMS Event List`

  When showing two separate columns of data (render modes for left and right are different) use these options to set the column header text.

- `DISPLAY_CORNER_TITLE=WIW and EMS Display`

  Sets the display title in the corner of the screen. Defaults to 'Events Display'.

- `WIW_API_LOCATION=123456`

  API Location ID to search When I Work for shift data. Can be set to a comma-delimited list, such as `123456,234567,345678` to get shifts for multiple locations at once.

- `WIW_LOOKAHEAD_DAYS=5`

  How many days worth of data to query from the API each time. Defaults to 7.

- `EMS_LOOKAHEAD_DAYS=5`

  How many days worth of data to query from the API each time. Defaults to 7.

- `EMS_BUILDINGS=1,2,3,4`

  Building IDs in EMS to gather booking / event data for.

- `EMS_STATUSES=2,3,4,5`

  Status IDs in EMS to gather booking / event data for.

- `EMS_EVENT_TYPES=1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9`

  Event Type IDs in EMS to gather booking / event data for.

- `LABOR_MODE_CUSTOM_NAMING=123456:Event,234567:Office`

  Naming to differentiate When I Work locations from each other when using the 'LABOR' layout, which has shifts in a condensed form.
  
- `EMS_Status_ROW_HIGHLIGHT=2:#ffffff50,3:#aabbccdd`

  Set row highlight colors (HEXA) (hex w/ alpha) associated event status ID (ID first). Applies to EMS event date list only. Separate each state setting from the color value by commas (`,`). Separate status ID and color code by colons (`:`).

## Updates

Dependency updates: update the base image in `Dockerfile` and update application dependencies in `package.json`.

### Base Image

[Base image list](https://www.balena.io/docs/reference/base-images/base-images/) - Choose a recent linux / node version that also supports the selected version of Electron.

### Electron Version Updates

Note: build depends on there being a prebuilt ARM architecture version of electron that can be downloaded during package install. For newer versions of electron, these are not always available. The build will fail if the necessary files are not acquired.

## Building Image for Deployment

There are 2 options; build in the cloud with Balena Cloud or build the image locally using Docker (Docker must be installed).

### Preflight Checks

Use Ensure files are up to date and that you are on the correct code branch. Run tests to ensure the code is ready for deployment. Run the app locally on the development machine with `npm start` and make sure things appear correct, check the dev console while the app is running with `Ctrl+Shift+I` and look for http errors or console errors. You also must install the [Balena CLI][1].

### Locally with Docker

1. Open a console to the project root (where `Dockerfile` and `package.json` are)
2. Log into the Balena console with `balena login`
3. Build the image

> `balena build --application [BALENA APP NAME] --logs .`

**Note(s):** Don't forget the trailing `.` which designates the current directory as the source for the code. Substitute in the name of your app for `[BALENA APP NAME]` which corresponds to the application name on the Balena Cloud dashboard. Add `--logs` to see the complete build details. For complete CLI documentation and other options see the [Balena CLI documentation][2].

4. Push the built image to Balena Cloud

> `balena deploy [BALENA APP NAME]`

### Building with Balena Cloud

1. Open a console to the project root (where `Dockerfile` and `package.json` are)
2. Log into the Balena console with `balena login`
3. Push code to Balena's build servers and wait for the image to be deployed automatically

> `balena push [BALENA APP NAME] .`

## Resources for Learning Electron

- [electronjs.org/docs](https://electronjs.org/docs) - all of Electron's documentation
- [electronjs.org/community#boilerplates](https://electronjs.org/community#boilerplates) - sample starter apps created by the community
- [electron/electron-quick-start](https://github.com/electron/electron-quick-start) - a very basic starter Electron app
- [electron/simple-samples](https://github.com/electron/simple-samples) - small applications with ideas for taking them further
- [electron/electron-api-demos](https://github.com/electron/electron-api-demos) - an Electron app that teaches you how to use Electron
- [hokein/electron-sample-apps](https://github.com/hokein/electron-sample-apps) - small demo apps for the various Electron API

This project got started from the Electron quick start: https://github.com/electron/electron-quick-start

## License

[MIT](LICENSE)

[1]: https://github.com/balena-io/balena-cli/blob/master/INSTALL.md
[2]: https://www.balena.io/docs/reference/balena-cli/#build-source

Commit message:

Add multiple architecture / device support
Changed from a standard Dockerfile to a Dockerfile.template
Tested local builds against both armv7hf and aarch64 architecture builds without issue.

Fixes #20

README.md, after:

# wiw-events-shifts-display

Digital signage for displaying events and shifts with data from When I Work or EMS APIs.

This project was developed at the [University of Washington](uw.edu). Users outside of our organization will likely need to go through some significant configuration steps in order to make this code work for them. It's presented here as (hopefully!) a good jumping-off point.

## To Use

To clone and run this repository you'll need [Git](https://git-scm.com) and [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) (which comes with [npm](http://npmjs.com)) installed on your computer. From your command line:

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install
# Run the app
npm start
```

Settings, secrets, etc. will be loaded from local environment variables. See [Configuration](#Configuration) for necessary setup steps for running locally, or what options are available for running in a managed environment.

Note: If you're using Linux Bash for Windows, [see this guide](https://www.howtogeek.com/261575/how-to-run-graphical-linux-desktop-applications-from-windows-10s-bash-shell/) or use `node` from the command prompt.

### Configuration

Sample configuration file provided in `sample.env`

- `WIW_API_TOKEN=when-i-work-login-token`

  Sets the login token for the When I Work API. Necessary to load any data from When I Work.

- `WIW_API_URL=https://api.wheniwork.com/2/`

  Base URL for When I Work's API. Shouldn't change too much.

- `EMS_API_USER=username`

  Username to pass to EMS for accessing the API.

- `EMS_API_PASS=password`

  Password to pass to EMS for accessing the API.

- `EMS_API_URL=https://base.url/EMSAPI/`

  Root URL for the EMSAPI.

- `NOTES_TITLE_SEPARATOR=-`

  Titles for events are in the notes for shifts in When I Work for our particular environment. This is subject to change, and thus the separator can be configured. Works in concert with `SEPARATOR_WHITESPACE`.

- `SEPARATOR_WHITESPACE=true`

  Configures whether or not the separator is surrounded by whitespace or not. In this example the above separator would be a dash surrounded by whitespace.

- `MAX_REFRESH_INTERVAL=300`

  Seconds. Program will refetch data every 30 seconds by default. If any errors occur, including network issues, the refetch rate will slow down by 30 seconds per error until a successful cycle passes, at which point it will return to the default initial refetch rate. The maximum refetch rate puts an upper limit to this rate, so that it will at most wait 5 minutes between attempts.

- `DISPLAY_RENDER_MODE_LEFT=EVENTS`
- `DISPLAY_RENDER_MODE_RIGHT=EVENTS`

  options for DISPLAY_RENDER_MODEs: "LABOR", "EVENTS", or "EMS-EVENTS"

  - LABOR = When I Work Labor (condensed view)
  - EVENTS = When I Work labor events associated with an event
  - EMS-EVENTS = Events scheduled in EMS (regardless of labor assignment)

  When both Left and Right render modes are the same, the screen will render data across both columns (top to bottom, left to right). When the settings are different, each column will render it's data in the set column only (top-to-bottom).

- `DISPLAY_LEFT_COLUMN_TITLE=WIW Events Labor`
- `DISPLAY_RIGHT_COLUMN_TITLE=EMS Event List`

  When showing two separate columns of data (render modes for left and right are different) use these options to set the column header text.

- `DISPLAY_CORNER_TITLE=WIW and EMS Display`

  Sets the display title in the corner of the screen. Defaults to 'Events Display'.

- `WIW_API_LOCATION=123456`

  API Location ID to search When I Work for shift data. Can be set to a comma-delimited list, such as `123456,234567,345678` to get shifts for multiple locations at once.

- `WIW_LOOKAHEAD_DAYS=5`

  How many days worth of data to query from the API each time. Defaults to 7.

- `EMS_LOOKAHEAD_DAYS=5`

  How many days worth of data to query from the API each time. Defaults to 7.

- `EMS_BUILDINGS=1,2,3,4`

  Building IDs in EMS to gather booking / event data for.

- `EMS_STATUSES=2,3,4,5`

  Status IDs in EMS to gather booking / event data for.

- `EMS_EVENT_TYPES=1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9`

  Event Type IDs in EMS to gather booking / event data for.

- `LABOR_MODE_CUSTOM_NAMING=123456:Event,234567:Office`

  Naming to differentiate When I Work locations from each other when using the 'LABOR' layout, which has shifts in a condensed form.
  
- `EMS_Status_ROW_HIGHLIGHT=2:#ffffff50,3:#aabbccdd`

  Set row highlight colors (HEXA) (hex w/ alpha) associated event status ID (ID first). Applies to EMS event date list only. Separate each state setting from the color value by commas (`,`). Separate status ID and color code by colons (`:`).

## Updates

Dependency updates: update the base image in `Dockerfile` and update application dependencies in `package.json`.

### Base Image

[Base image list](https://www.balena.io/docs/reference/base-images/base-images/) - Choose a recent linux / node version that also supports the selected version of Electron.

### Electron Version Updates

Note: build depends on there being a prebuilt ARM architecture version of electron that can be downloaded during package install. For newer versions of electron, these are not always available. The build will fail if the necessary files are not acquired.

## Building Image for Deployment

There are 2 options; build in the cloud with Balena Cloud or build the image locally using Docker (Docker must be installed).

### Preflight Checks

Use Ensure files are up to date and that you are on the correct code branch. Run tests to ensure the code is ready for deployment. Run the app locally on the development machine with `npm start` and make sure things appear correct, check the dev console while the app is running with `Ctrl+Shift+I` and look for http errors or console errors. You also must install the [Balena CLI][1].

### Locally with Docker (still uses Balena CLI to initiate build env)

1. Open a console to the project root (where `Dockerfile.template` and `package.json` are)
2. Log into the Balena console with `balena login`
3. Build the image

> `balena build --fleet [BALENA FLEET NAME] --logs .`

**Note(s):** Don't forget the trailing `.` which designates the current directory as the source for the code. Substitute in the name of your fleet for `[BALENA FLEET NAME]` which corresponds to the application name on the Balena Cloud dashboard. Add `--logs` to see the complete build details. For complete CLI documentation and other options see the [Balena CLI documentation][2].

4. Push the built image to Balena Cloud

> `balena deploy [BALENA FLEET NAME]`

### Building with Balena Cloud

1. Open a console to the project root (where `Dockerfile.template` and `package.json` are)
2. Log into the Balena console with `balena login`
3. Push code to Balena's build servers and wait for the image to be deployed automatically

> `balena push [BALENA FLEET NAME] .`

## Resources for Learning Electron

- [electronjs.org/docs](https://electronjs.org/docs) - all of Electron's documentation
- [electronjs.org/community#boilerplates](https://electronjs.org/community#boilerplates) - sample starter apps created by the community
- [electron/electron-quick-start](https://github.com/electron/electron-quick-start) - a very basic starter Electron app
- [electron/simple-samples](https://github.com/electron/simple-samples) - small applications with ideas for taking them further
- [electron/electron-api-demos](https://github.com/electron/electron-api-demos) - an Electron app that teaches you how to use Electron
- [hokein/electron-sample-apps](https://github.com/hokein/electron-sample-apps) - small demo apps for the various Electron API

This project got started from the Electron quick start: https://github.com/electron/electron-quick-start

## License

[MIT](LICENSE)

[1]: https://github.com/balena-io/balena-cli/blob/master/INSTALL.md
[2]: https://www.balena.io/docs/reference/balena-cli/#build-source
